We are an “App” of Life

The SLT-MOBITEL proposition is one that is inextricably interwoven with the lives of 
country and people. Our products, services and applications are an indispensable component of life across province and 
people. We value this position we enjoy and work constantly to evolve and advance our 
services, keeping pace with global trends that propel our industry

The 11th Annual Integrated Report of Sri Lanka Telecom PLC (SLT) presents a balanced and comprehensive overview 
of the Company’s performance for the fiscal year ended on 31 December 2023. 
This Report delves into the financial, environmental, social, and governance aspects of the Company, employing relevant and suitable metrics for a well-rounded discussion. It builds upon 
the groundwork laid in the previous Annual Report for the fiscal year concluded on 31 December 2022, accessible on www.sltmobitel.lk.

Reporting Framework
The preparation of this report aligns with 
regulatory policies, supplemented by the 
Company’s voluntarily adopted framework 
and ethics, ensuring compliance and a thorough representation of its multifaceted performance.


Regulatory 
• Companies Act No. 07 of 2007
• Continuing listing requirements of CSE
• Financial Reporting Standards issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka)


Voluntary
• Integrated Reporting Framework 
published by International Integrated 
Reporting Council (IIRC) 
• GRI Standards issued by the Global 
Reporting Initiative 
• Code of Best Practice on Corporate 
Governance issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA 
Sri Lanka)

Scope and Limits 
This Report presents both financial and 
non-financial details concerning Sri Lanka 
Telecom PLC, which represents the parent 
company and its subsidiaries, also referred 
to as the “Group”. Instances where only the 
parent company is mentioned is referred to 
as “SLT” or the “Company”. 
The SLT annual report delineates the 
Company’s operations, performance, 
and financial position, aligning with the 
International Integrated Reporting (IR) 
Framework. While offering comprehensive 
insights into value creation strategies, 
including financial, social, and environmental 
aspects, it is imperative to acknowledge 
certain limitations. External factors, market 
volatility, and unforeseen events can 
impact projections. The report encourages 
stakeholders to interpret information 
judiciously, recognising the inherent 
uncertainties. SLT remains committed 
to transparency, accountability, and the 
International Integrated Reporting <IR> 
Framework, ensuring stakeholders receive 
a holistic view of the Company’s value 
creation journey in the short, medium 
and long-terms. within the bounds of 
prevailing conditions.
Assurance
Ernst & Young offers assurance on the 
Financial Statements, while assurance on 
non-financial information is provided by 
the Chief Executive Officer, and relevant 
management authorities.
Forward Looking Statements 
In adherence to regulatory requirements, 
our Annual Report contains forwardlooking statements that reflect SLT’s 
future expectations, projections, and plans. 
These statements involve inherent risks 
and uncertainties, and actual results may 
differ materially from those expressed 
or implied. Factors such as technological 
advancements, market dynamics, and 
regulatory changes can impact outcomes. 
SLT undertakes no obligation to update 
these forward-looking statements, 
providing a snapshot of our aspirations, 
but cautioning stakeholders to consider 
the inherent unpredictability of future 
events. The Company encourages readers 
to approach these statements with due


diligence, recognising the dynamic nature 
of the telecommunications industry and its 
susceptibility to various external factors.
Precautionary Principles
Embracing the Precautionary Principle 
in our Annual Report, SLT underscores 
its commitment to environmental 
stewardship. Aligned with Principle 15 of 
the Rio Declaration on Environment and 
Development, our ESG initiatives prioritise 
responsible practices. By exercising caution 
in our operations, we proactively address 
potential environmental impacts. This 
commitment, outlined in our Annual Report, 
signifies our dedication to sustainable 
practices and the prudent management 
of environmental risks in line with 
international standards.
Responsibility
The Senior Management at SLT has 
undertaken the preparation and review 
of the Integrated Annual Report for the 
fiscal year 2023. In addressing all pertinent 
matters up to the report’s date, both 
the Board and the SLT Management 
recognise their duty to present an impartial 
perspective of the Company’s performance 
in 2023. The Annual Report for 2023 is 
officially endorsed on behalf of the Board by: 
A K D D D Arandara - Chairman
V U Kumar - Audit Committee Chairman
Janaka Abeysinghe -Chief Executive Officer

Feedback on this report can be 
directed to:
Mr Mahesh Athukorale
Group Company Secretary
Sri Lanka Telecom PLC
Lotus Road,
Colombo 01,
Sri Lanka
Tel: +94 11 239 9478
Email: mathukorale@slt.com.lk


About Us
In the dynamic telecommunications sector, Sri Lanka Telecom PLC (SLT) stands 
out as a trailblazer in innovation and connectivity, offering a wide range of 
communication solutions that transcend traditional boundaries. As the foremost 
National Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Solutions Provider 
in Sri Lanka, SLT delivers a broad spectrum of services encompassing fixed and 
mobile telephony, broadband, data services, Internet Protocol Television (IPTV), 
cloud computing, hosting services, and advanced networking solutions

Mission

Your trusted and proven 
partner for innovative and 
exciting communication 
experiences delivered 
with passion, quality, and 
commitment


All Sri Lankans seamlessly 
connected with world-class 
information, communication, 
and entertainment 
services


---Page 5



In the dynamic telecommunications sector, 
SLT stands out as a trailblazer in innovation 
and connectivity, offering a wide range of 
communication solutions that transcend 
traditional boundaries. As the foremost 
National Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT) solutions provider in 
Sri Lanka, SLT delivers a broad spectrum of 
services encompassing fixed and mobile 
telephony, broadband, data services, 
Internet Protocol Television (IPTV), cloud 
computing, hosting services, and advanced 
networking solutions. Sri Lanka Telecom 
PLC is not just a telecommunications 
entity we are pioneers of connectivity, 
propelling the country’s digital evolution 
forward. With a storied legacy spanning 
generations, we have been instrumental in 
revolutionising communication in Sri Lanka. 
Starting from modest origins, we have 
grown into the premier telecommunications 
provider, delivering a comprehensive 
suite of services tailored to meet the 
diverse requirements of our clientele. 
Our unwavering dedication to innovation, 
dependability, and customer contentment 
has fostered trust and nurtured enduring 
partnerships across the entire nation. 
As we persist in pushing boundaries and 
embracing emerging technologies, our 
objective remains resolute: to empower 
individuals, businesses, and communities 
through seamless connectivity and 
unparalleled service.
Sri Lanka Telecom PLC has been 
recognised in Business Today’s yearly TOP 
40 rankings for its notable influence and 
impact in Sri Lanka’s telecommunications 
industry, playing a key role in the country’s 
digital transformation as a leading 
industry player. This recognition marks a 
noteworthy milestone for SLT as the only 
telecommunications provider within the Top 
40 list, commended for its commitment to 
innovation and excellence. 
SLT secured its place this year as one 
of the “10 Most Admired Companies 
in Sri Lanka.” This prestigious award 
acknowledges organisations for their 
exceptional performance in financial 
aspects as well as their commitment to 
sustainable value creation, ethical practices 
towards employees, customers, investors, 
and the community. Securing a place 
among the top companies in Sri Lanka this 
year as well highlights SLT’s dedication to 
excellence and ethical business conduct.

This achievement serves as a significant 
milestone in the company’s journey, 
showcasing its unwavering commitment 
to upholding high standards of corporate 
governance and responsible business 
practices.
The numerous awards received by SLT 
throughout the year are showcased on 
pages 46 and 47.
SLT has obtained various certifications 
in accordance with international 
standards. These certifications include 
ISO 14064:1:2018 for greenhouse gas 
emissions verification, ISO /IEC 22301:2019 
for Business Continuity Management 
System, ISO 9001:2015 for Quality 
Management System (QMS) ensuring 
meeting customer, statutory, and regulatory 
standards, and ISO /IEC 27001:2013 
for Information Security Management 
System (ISMS). Additionally, SLT has 
received certifications for its adherence 
to ISO 31000:2018 Risk Management 
guidelines, which serve as the foundation 
of its Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
framework. These certifications reflect 
SLT’s commitment to excellence and 
adherence to international best practices in 
various aspects of its operations.
Throughout the fiscal year, SLT has 
continued its unwavering commitment to 
connecting lives and businesses, shaping 
the digital future of Sri Lanka. The report 
delves into the Company’s strategic 
initiatives, highlighting advancements 
in technology, network infrastructure, 
and customer-centric services. As the 
telecommunications landscape undergoes 
dynamic shifts, SLT’s dedication to fostering 
digital life style experiences to citizens 
remains steadfast. This Report serves as a 
testament to the Company’s achievements, 
challenges overcome, and a roadmap for 
the future, reinforcing SLT’s position as 
a trailblazer in the telecommunications 
sector, shaping the nation’s digital 
narrative with foresight, resilience, and a 
commitment to excellence.


---Page 6

---Page 7

Driving a Smarter Sri Lanka


Unparalleled Reach

As the National Information and 
Communications Technology (ICT) 
solutions provider, SLT provides the 
backbone for island-wide connectivity 
and communications. Bolstering around 
9 million subscribers for fixed mobile and 
ICT services, the Company’s commitment 
also extends to empowering the 
telecommunications value-chain, and 
delivering innovative products and services 
that improve the lives of millions more. 
Customers include individual and domestic 
consumers, enterprise customers ranging 
from SMEs to multinationals and large 
enterprises, essential services and public 
sector institutions, and other operators. 
In the field of entertainment, SLT’s IPTV 
offering - PEOTV, has the largest library of 
High-Definition (HD) content in Sri Lanka 
and is the only provider of local freeto-air channels in HD aired through the 
PEOTV platform.

More than 1.3 million
fixed subscribers experiencing 
multiple services
Ensuring that all Sri Lankans are seamlessly 
connected with world-class information, 
communication and entertainment 
services, is enshrined in our vision. At the 
heart of this commitment, is the extension 
and maintenance of Sri Lanka’s robust 
communications infrastructure, and 
provision of vital access to digital products 
and services

National Backbone Network 
(NBN)

SLT’s advanced fibre optic network serves 
as the backbone of Sri Lanka’s digital 
communications and connectivity. Our fibre 
optic transport network extends almost 
65,000 km and includes over 1.2 million 
FTTH ports across the entire island. 
This state-of-the-art network ensures 
high-speed, high-capacity, low-latency 
connectivity for millions of Sri Lankans

As the Nation’s largest IP network, SLT’s 
infrastructure encompasses multiple100 
Gbps backbone, metro rings, and further 
access rings. This robust network with over 
500 high-capacity nodes for seamless 
connectivity and 4,500 service segregation 
nodes delivers intelligent IP transport 
services for various platforms. These 
support SLT’s retail products (Broadband, 
PEOTV, 4G, and Wi-Fi) while also connecting 
government, enterprises, and other 
domestic and international segments

In today’s interconnected world, reliability 
and security of the networks that undergird 
all digital and ICT functions, are paramount. 
Recognising the critical role of our network, 
we have incorporated comprehensive 
security like enabling an intelligent 
Automatically Switched Optical Network 
(ASON), and providing a 1+2 redundancy 
system to ensure reliable operation.
Meeting Future Connectivity 
Needs
The world is constantly evolving, and as 
Sri Lanka embraces new technologies like 
artificial intelligence, Internet of Things 
(IoT), cloud computing, and upgrades 
to wireless cellular technology such as 
5G, the need for robust, high-speed 
connectivity becomes critical. As a National 
digital enabler, SLT is geared to embrace 
opportunities and meet the varying needs 
of a rapidly changing environment.
SLT connects Sri Lanka to the world through 
five international submarine cable systems: 
SEA-ME-WE 3, SEA-ME-WE 4, SEA-MEWE5, Bharat Lanka, and Dhiraagu-SLT. As 
the globalised work environment expands 
and service exports become a key driver of 
Sri Lanka’s digital economy, we are outfitting 
our networks and infrastructure to meet 
the foreseen rise in communication and 
data needs. The potential for growth in the 
horizon is contingent upon the activation 
of capacity following the completion of 
the expansion of SEA-ME-WE 5. Similarly, 
a recent upgrade of SEA-ME-WE 4, with a 
capacity increase from 65Tb /s to 122Tb /s, 
positions the cable system to cater to 
increasing bandwidth demands.

---Page 8

The upcoming SEA-ME-WE 6 cable, slated 
for completion in 2025, has a planned 
landing point at SLT’s Matara Cable Landing 
Station. This high-capacity network has a 
design capacity of 10x13 Tbps, of which 
SLT has secured a capacity of 6 Tbps – 
promising high-speed global connectivity 
and capacity for Sri Lanka’s consumers, 
enterprises, and the economy in the years 
to come. Together with SLT’s bolstered 
international backhaul capacity, this global 
platform creates a robust International


backbone, ensuring reliable and efficient 
data flow for Sri Lanka’s digitalisation 
ambitions and roll-out of new technologies 
such as 5G.

SLT’s network of state-of-the-art data 
centres and multi-cloud offerings will be 
crucial to enabling and meeting the rising 
demand for digital services across the 
Country. We will continue to partner with 
investors and others to pursue set-up of 
additional data centres and installation of 
additional capacity at our existing locations


We employ proactive capacity planning 
by analysing historical data and actively 
aligning with government and regulator 
initiatives such as “Connect Sri Lanka”, 
which sought to fulfil country-wide 4G 
and fibre broadband coverage. Following 
directives to phase out 3G and aggressively 
expand 4G coverage, we have continually 
expanded our capacity to match the 
direction of local demand. Where possible, 
we leverage Network Function Virtualization 
(NFVI) infrastructure to provide seamless 
integration without requirement for 
additional hardware.

Emerging Technology and 
Opportunities
Emergence of 5G technology marks 
a revolutionary leap in connectivity. 
Its potential goes beyond faster data 
transfer to a world of applications that 
could transform the way we live, work, 
and interact. With auction of Sri Lanka’s 
5G spectrum on the horizon, SLT has 
embarked on pre-commercial trials of 
5G on a trial license. Pilot projects were 
rolled out across five cities: Colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, Anuradhapura, and 
Jaffna. Enhanced mobile broadband 
and ultra-reliable low latency 
communications (URLLC) have already 
lent themselves to innovative pilot 
ventures, and our teams are preparing 
to explore potential opportunities for 
systemic change through a variety of 
5G applications.



Financial Highlights
2023 LKR Mn. 2022 LKR Mn. Change %
Group
Revenue 106,418 107,710 (1.2)
- Fixed 63,637 61,701 3.1
- Mobile 41,103 43,494 (5.5)
- Others 1,678 2,515 (33.3)
EBITDA 33,003 40,759 (19.0)
Operating Profit 4,102 12,518 (67.2)
Profit /(loss) before Tax (2,651) 10,588 (125.0)
Profit /(loss) after Tax (3,921) 4,765 (182.3)
Earnings Per Share (LKR) (2.17) 2.64 (182.6)
Current Assets
Current receivables 32,015 32,533 (1.6)
Other investments, cash and cash equivalents 12,494 18,145 (31.1)
Other current assets 5,770 4,773 20.9
Use of EBITDA
Profit /(loss) before Tax (2,651) 10,588 (125.0)
Net interest cost 9,607 1,938 395.7
Depreciation and amortisation 28,901 28,241 2.3
EBITDA margin 31% 38% (7.0)
Company
Revenue 69,711 67,569 3.2
EBITDA 23,614 24,056 (1.8)
Operating Profit 5,081 5,957 (14.7)
Profit /(loss) before Tax (1,611) 12,648 (112.7)
Profit /(loss) after Tax (1,132) 8,463 (113.4)
Earnings Per Share (LKR) (0.63) 4.69 (113.4)


SLT’s Akaza multi-cloud 
service reached 1,000 
customers in 2023

Deployed Sri Lanka’s first 
VMware Cloud Foundation 
(VCF) and achieved 
VMWare Cloud Verified 
Certification

400 new 4G LTE base 
station

SLT-MOBITEL Operational 
HQ at Welikada awarded 
Platinum Green rating

Over 1.2 million
FTTH Ports

SLT-MOBITEL reigns 
“Number One” for 
Telecom industry in 
Business Today TOP 40 
ranking for 2022-2023

319 sites hosting solar 
systems by 2023 for SLT 
and Mobitel with plans to 
extend by 201 sites

5G pilot projects
completed in five major 
cities
Launch of SLT’s Executive 
Development Programme 
investing over 10,000 
training hours for 100+ 
key executives

---Page 12



Group Chairman’s Review


Highlights:
Recognising the challenges ahead, we are 
determined to overcome them through 
decisive action: to improve performance, 
ensure sustainability of the enterprise, 
and create long-term value



Dear Shareholders,

On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am 
pleased to present Sri Lanka Telecom PLC’s 
Annual Report for 2023. The year presented 
a complex operating environment, as the 
cumulative effects of economic stressors 
from current and previous years bore down 
on the industry, economy, and customers. 
Macroeconomic challenges facing the 
telecommunication industry impacted 
both demand and supply sides, pressuring 
the Group’s topline and bottom line. 
Further, increase in taxation and electricity 
tariffs had a significant adverse impact on 
industry profitability.
Subdued Group Performance
SLT group reported a Loss After Tax of 
LKR 3.9 Bn. as the Group experienced 
marginal revenue degrowth in the single 
digits. SLT recorded a loss of LKR 1.1 Bn, 
and Mobitel a loss of LKR 3.6 Bn. SLT’s 
operations recorded a growth in revenue of 
3.2% during the year, while Mobitel recorded 
a reduction in revenue of 5.7% YoY.
A Transparent Review of 
Internal Challenges
While the ongoing economic crisis 
has undoubtedly impacted the entire 
telecommunications sector, some 
operators in the industry have navigated 
these challenges more effectively, achieving 
growth during this period. At the same time, 
despite long-standing structural challenges, 
the Group had managed to post profits 
and declare dividends in the previous years. 
Therefore, it is important to acknowledge 
that areas for improvement exist within 
the Group. These include enhancing 
productivity, optimising operating costs to 
be on par with industry peers, improving 
structures and processes, and addressing 
potential leakages. It is also vital that we 
identify, analyse, and address the factors 
that contributed to the Group’s loss during 
the year 2023.
Historically, two factors have contributed 
to the Group’s performance: Firstly, 
Mobitel was efficient and contributed a 
significant portion of Group profits until 
2021. Secondly, until recently, SLT had 
relied on sunken copper investments 
and therefore there was minimal capital 
investment on newer technologies like fibre 
network infrastructure including last-mile 
connections. While the copper network was 
inefficient, it generated sufficient revenue 
to cover costs in the past.
While these factors had contributed to 
creating a fragile profit for the Group 
in the past; a number of decisions 
taken in 2020 and thereafter, 
compounded by a series of untimely 
occurrences, eroded the Group’s 
profit and contributed to the losses 
reported in 2023.

The Group’s Technical Sub-Committee 
(TSC) and Audit Committee (AC) have 
diligently assessed the decisions and issues 
that led to losses experienced during the 
year, and set a course to correct them, 
which I will outline herewith.
1. Deficiencies in capital 
project execution:
A review by the TSC revealed significant 
shortcomings in the execution of key capital 
expenditure projects, including Fibre-ToThe-Home (FTTH), Fixed Wireless Access 
(FWA), Internet-Protocol-Television (IPTV) 
and Internet-Data-Centre (IDC). These 
projects suffered from cost overruns 
significantly exceeding initial projections; 
risks were not adequately assessed or 
factored into planning; excessive upfront 
capital expenditure was made without clear 
long-term return on investment strategies 
in place; and business cases relied on overly 
optimistic Terminal Value (TV) calculations 
to justify project returns - potentially 
inflating their viability.
These issues highlight the need for a more 
rigorous project management and risk 
assessment framework. The Group has 
taken steps to address these concerns: the 
Nomination and Governance Committee 
and Remuneration Committee of the Board 
assisted the CEO to create a new General 
Manager position, reporting to the CEO, 
whose primarily responsibility is to ensure 
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC). The 
Group has also recruited suitable cadre, 
with international exposure, to fill the 
position. The Board has further designated 
the CEO and CFO as persons accountable 
for ensuring proper project appraisals, 
adherence to approved business cases, and 
regular proactive monitoring to keep the 
Board appraised.
2. Challenges with the Convergent 
Billing Project:
The TSC also identified issues with the 
Group’s single-sourced, technical-led, 
Convergent Billing project. This project was 
intended to streamline billing for bundled 
services. Often considered a Business 
Support System Transformation project in 
the industry, such a project is considered a 
strategic undertaking that has the potential 
to transform every part of the business and 
deliver value to customers and internal and 
external stakeholders.


However, TSC review has highlighted 
improper planning and deviation from 
industry best practices, which typically 
follow open tender processes and prioritise 
business needs. This has resulted in the 
Board recognising the project as high-risk. 
The Board is therefore actively monitoring 
the project.
3. Elevated costs through lack of 
CPE interoperability:
The AC and Senior Tender Board (STB) 
identified a lack of interoperability between 
Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) 
used for FTTH, which resulted in exorbitant 
prices. In order to address this, the AC and 
STB directed management to address 
the issue, thereby fostering greater 
competition among CPE vendors. This 
initiative successfully reduced CPE costs by 
approximately 50%.
4. Cash flow challenges due to 
funding mismatch and dependence 
on post-paid
The Group’s prior practice of financing 
long-term projects through short-term 
borrowings, has resulted in cash flow issues. 
In addition, an over-reliance on post-paid 
customer billing cycles has slowed down 
cash flow. 
Additionally, the prior practice of capitalising 
customer-specific connection costs (lastmile infrastructure) enabled recording of 
growth in terms of revenues and profits. 
Albeit, this practice placed a tremendous 
burden on cash flows, increased borrowings, 
and caused enormous churn where net 
growth of customers was severely affected.
5. Mobitel’s profitability erosion 
and subscriber churn:
Mobitel’s historical contribution to SLT 
through dividends ceased in FY2022 and 
FY2023, coinciding with a significant decline 
in profitability. Profits of LKR 8 Bn. in 2021 
turned into losses of LKR 120 Mn. in 2022 
and LKR 3.7 Bn. in 2023. This deterioration 
was primarily driven by a customer base 
reduction exceeding 1.3 million over the 
same period. An investigative audit directed 
by the AC identified several causal factors 
for the excessive and unprecedented levels 
of churn contributing to the rapid subscriber 
base decline, which fell from 8.5 million to 
7.2 million between 2022 and 2023


Provision of defective Subscriber Identity 
Modules (SIM) batches by an identified 
supplier caused customer inconvenience, 
resulting in further churn and /or 
necessitating free SIM replacements at 
appreciable inconvenience to customers 
and increased overheads to Mobitel. As part 
of corrective action, Mobitel has ceased 
sourcing from this supplier and is pursuing 
necessary legal action.
Excessive Trade Incentives for customer 
acquisition significantly increased the 
Subscriber Acquisition Cost (SAC), 
which more than doubled compared 
to the previous year. This strategy, 
potentially driven by the need to 
replace defective SIMs, incentivised 
gross additions even through sale of 
new connections existing customers, 
further contributing to churn rates.
Taking immediate action to address these 
issues, from mid-2023 onward Mobitel 
implemented corrective measures in the 
trade incentive scheme that had severely 
burdened the company. In addition, the 
Board decided to not renew the Group 
Chief Executive Officer contract and to 
accept resignation of the Chief Executive 
Officer of Mobitel. Accordingly, the 
Board facilitated a merged-organisation 
structure for the Group with a single Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) – appointing 
Mr. Janaka Abeysinghe to this position to 
lead the unified organisation. As part of 
the merged structure, Mobitel welcomed 
Mr. Sudharshana Geeganage as its new 
Chief Operating Officer (COO).
Marking a Turning Point in 
2023: A Year of Restructure
To navigate the ongoing challenges and 
ensure long-term success of the Group, 
the Board has focused on remedying urgent 
issues, addressing inefficiencies, optimising 
capital expenditure, and streamlining 
operations, as outlined above.
The significant concerns faced by the 
Group in 2023 also necessitated strategic 
course-correction and restructuring. In 
order to drive this shift, in January 2024, the 
Secretary to the Treasury replaced the six 
nominee Directors appointed on behalf of 
the Government of Sri Lanka. I am grateful 
to the Ministry of Finance and the Board of 
Sri Lanka Telecom PLC for placing their trust 
in me to take the helm as Chairman


---Page 17

Looking to 2024: A Year for 
Refocus and Consolidation
Embarking on this journey of 
transformation, we are committed to 
creating a more efficient, agile, and 
cost-effective organisation, which is wellpositioned for future growth.
Following a comprehensive review by the 
Audit Committee, including benchmarking 
against regional best practices for multicompany governance, the Board adopted 
a strategic initiative to consolidate 
and streamline the Group structure. 
This involved establishing effective 
governance frameworks for all privately held 
subsidiaries, ensuring clear accountability 
and performance measurement. The 
streamlined structure was implemented 
in a phased approach and became fully 
operational in March 2024.
Optimising our operations, we are working 
to maximise efficiency across the Group. 
While staff cost-to-revenue ratios are 
currently higher than the industry average, 
the Board is committed to achieving 
sustainable and profitable growth while 
optimising operations to improve these 
metrics. A key element in this endeavour 
is fostering a vibrant performance culture 
across the Group. We are looking to our 
staff to provide exceptional customer 
experiences as a core focus, and will be 
creating necessary structures to enable 
performing staff to reap the benefits. To 
drive this cultural transformation, the Board, 
with the support of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee and Remuneration 
Committee, has appointed a new 
Chief People Officer with international 
experience. This dedicated leader will be 
responsible for implementing strategies 
to enhance staff productivity and build a 
culture of excellence across SLT

We are also pleased to announce successful 
conclusion of litigation related to the 
Dialog-Airtel merger and Radio Access 
Network (RAN) sharing. This outcome 
was achieved through an equitable 
settlement agreement facilitated by 
the Telecommunications Regulatory 
Commission of Sri Lanka (TRCSL). We 
commend TRCSL’s commitment to fairness 
and a just resolution for all parties involved. 
As a result of this agreement, Mobitel is 
expected to receive significant spectrum 
allocations from TRCSL. This includes 
5MHz of additional Frequency Division 
Duplexing (FDD) spectrum in the sub-1GHz 
low band, and 25MHz of Time Division 
Duplexing (TDD) spectrum in the 2.3GHz 
mid band. This additional spectrum will 
empower Mobitel to deliver an enhanced 
data experience for its customers and 
contribute to Sri Lanka’s digitalisation 
aspirations. Furthermore, the agreement 
addresses the long-standing issue of noncontiguous spectrum allocation, leading 
to improved spectral efficiency and cost 
savings for Mobitel’s wireless business. 
The agreement also includes TRCSL’s 
commitment to facilitate RAN sharing within 
the industry. This would unlock potential 
savings on infrastructure investments that 
will lessen the strain on foreign currency 
reserves and benefit the Group overall. 
This move will also allow for better network 
utilisation and increased capacity, ultimately 
benefiting customers through reduced 
costs and enhanced customer experience. 


Conclusion
In closing, I extend my gratitude to the 
former Board Directors who urgently 
and effectively addressed the challenges 
faced by the Group in 2023. I would also 
like to recognise the untiring efforts of our 
dedicated employees who went above and 
beyond in enabling the Group to withstand 
difficult circumstances. I also thank our 
shareholders, esteemed partners, and 
other stakeholders for their unwavering 
commitment and support. We recognise 
the challenges ahead, but I would like to 
reassure you that we are determined to 
overcome them. We are taking decisive 
action to improve performance, ensure 
sustainability of our enterprise, and create 
long-term value for our stakeholders. We 
appreciate your continued support as we 
continue to serve our country and people 
for a better and brighter future. 
A K D D D Arandara
Group Chairman


Chief Executive Officer’s Review

Despite challenges, I am immensely 
proud of the resilience demonstrated 
by the entire team at SLT.

As we reflect on 2023 where countries and 
industries continued to face the pressures 
of a global slowdown, Sri Lanka’s economic 
contraction was felt by all our stakeholders. 
The telecommunications sector had to 
contend with a multitude of challenges 
including rising costs, while responding to 
the needs of customers. These factors, 
combined with rising exchange and 
interest rates, created a complex business 
environment that impacted our operations 
and results.
Despite these headwinds, I am immensely 
proud of the resilience demonstrated by 
the entire team at SLT. From the technical 
staff maintaining and extending critical 
infrastructure, to our customer experience 
teams, we have remained committed to 
delivering an exceptional service to our 
customers.
Navigating headwinds
Escalating costs, particularly the high 
increases in electricity tariffs in 2022 
and again in 2023, coupled with a steep 
escalation in exchange rate significantly 
impacted our business. As a leading digital 
enabler for the nation, high energy cost and 
Annual Maintenance Costs (AMC) involved 
in managing and sustaining vital network 
infrastructure was a major issue to contend 
with, as we continued to build out our 
network, align with connectivity needs of 
customers, and pursue the roll-out of new 
and more advanced technologies.
These factors were compounded by 
the prevalent elevated interest rates 
and inflationary pressures on consumer 
disposable income, which led to a 
higher customer churn-rate 
compared to previous years


YoY, operational costs rose by 6%. This 
resulted in a Group-level loss, with SLT 
incurring a loss of LKR 1.1 Bn. and Mobitel 
a loss of LKR 3.6 Bn. The Group Earnings 
Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and 
Amortisation (EBITDA) also reflects these 
challenges.
Cost optimisation was a central focus 
during the year as we successfully managed 
internal costs where possible by maximising 
efficiencies and absorbing costs by adjusting 
the focus of our teams to include certain 
maintenance activities. While external 
factors like license fees, interest rates and 
energy prices remained beyond our direct 
control, consolidation of Annual Maintenance 
Costs (AMC), and continuing investment in 
profitable and revenue generating projects 
contributed to cost-effectiveness and 
cost-benefits that we could extend to 
our customers.
Investing in our employees
The economic environment of 
the last two years brought multiple 
stressors for human resource 
management and talent 
retention for all Sri Lankan 
institutions. Combatting 
talent-flight across various 
professions, we implemented 
proactive initiatives to


---Page 18

and ultimately attract, retain, and groom 
suitable personnel. These measures 
prioritised review of policies, enriching the 
organisational culture and work experience, 
and strengthening career advancement 
pathways. Our commitment extended to 
leadership development, with the launch of 
SLT’s Executive Development Programme 
in 2023, investing in over 10,000 training 
hours and providing an immersive training 
experience over for 100 key executives.
Expanding our network 
and offering
While we remained committed to 
infrastructure investments to extend reach, 
better serve our customers, and position to 
meet Sri Lanka’s growing digitalisation needs, 
network expansion slowed down in 2023. 
Our investments ranged from development 
of approximately 1.2 million FTTH ports and 
deployment of over 400 new 4G LTE base 
stations, expanding both wired and wireless 
networks across the country. 
Supporting Sri Lanka’s economic recovery, 
we continued to extend reliable, secure, 
and innovative products and services to 
businesses while supporting the digitalisation 
efforts of enterprises, SMEs, and a number 
of government institutions. Our enterprise 
segment saw continued growth in 2023, led 
by noteworthy revenue growth from the SME 
segment, and growth from large enterprise 
business. In line with SLT’s strategy of driving 
a smarter Sri Lanka, and our continued focus 
on empowering Business Segments we 
debuted new cost-effective products and 
expanded our enterprise service offering. 
Recognising the challenges faced by our 
consumers in the aftermath of the economic 
crisis, we delivered a number of innovative 
products and options that increased 
flexibility, affordability, and convenience for a 
wide customer base.
SLT’s wholesale business continues 
to facilitate connectivity demands of 
domestic and international telcos. We 
have also invested in capacity increases 
at data centres and upgraded and 
expanded the wired and wireless network 
infrastructure to accommodate growing 
demand, strengthening our domestic and 
international transport offering.
Additionally, our international business 
and presence remains strong with Xyntac 
establishing a footprint overseas and 
focusing on emerging opportunities 
unlocked by our international cable

infrastructure. We have invested in the  SMW6 submarine cable, due to complete  in 2025, securing capacity that will provide 
high-speed global connectivity for Sri Lanka’s  consumers, enterprises, and economy in the  years to come.
Subsidiaries play a vital role in SLT’s overall strategy. We continued to develop synergies 
across the Group, while improving standards 
and processes, increasing efficiency, and 
exploring options for consolidation and 
amalgamation. SLTS, our System Integration 
(SI) business, saw significant growth in 
the enterprise space, driven by our focus 
on digital transformation and buoyed 
by strong partnerships with banks and 
leading corporates. 
Transforming our business 
through innovation and 
sustainability
The global telecommunications sector 
continues to evolve and adapt to 
technological advancements and changing 
consumer demands. On par with these 
trends, SLT’s digital and organisational 
transformation to a future-ready technology 
company is encapsulated in our strategy. 
In 2023, the Digital Transformation Division 
continued our digitalisation efforts, 
prioritised internal process improvement, 
and bolstered our capabilities in software 
development, integration, and frontier 
technologies. These undertakings 
culminated in establishment of SLT’s 
dedicated Innovation Group in 2024, which 
includes an R&D lab, which is partnering with 
leading innovators and customers to pilot a 
range of internal and external initiatives.
Sustainability of our operations and 
long-term business model is a priority 
focus area that we strive to integrate 
into business practices. Exercising 
our commitment to environmental 
stewardship, we continued to pursue 
energy efficiency measures and expand 
our renewable energy generation. With 
solar systems now installed at 19 locations, 
and plans in place for solar PV at more than 
200 additional sites with a total capacity 
of 6MW, we expect annual savings of 
approximately LKR 260 Mn. and emissions 
reduction of around 6,300 tCO2e. This 
commitment extends to our office 
facilities, as we are proud to announce 
that the SLT-MOBITEL Operational HQ 
in Welikada was awarded a prestigious 
Platinum green building rating

Looking to the future
Despite the challenges faced in 2023, we 
are resolutely optimistic about the future 
as Sri Lanka’s economy is expected to 
return to growth in 2024 and evolution 
in the technological landscape indicates 
SLT is well-positioned to lead the way. 
The expected 5G spectrum allocation 
presents a significant opportunity to unlock 
the transformative potential of this nextgeneration 5G technology. We are confident 
our pre-commercial trial and pilot projects 
have equipped us with the knowledge and 
expertise to be a frontrunner in the 5G space, 
particularly for enterprise applications. 
Our robust partner ecosystem, including 
engagement of leading technological 
innovators, will allow us to capitalise on 
emerging opportunities. Meeting the needs 
of Sri Lanka’s evolving digital economy, we 
expect to be at the forefront of supporting 
and rolling out frontier technologies such as 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning 
(ML), Big Data analytics, Internet of Things 
(IoT), and Robotic Process Automation (RPA). 
The strength, reliability, and safety of our 
foundational network infrastructure, provision 
of cloud connectivity and edge computing 
solutions, leveraging of network APIs, and 
innovative SD-WAN enterprise solutions will 
pave the way for a more connected, intelligent, 
and automated future.
Acknowledgements
In closing, I would like to express my sincere 
gratitude to our dedicated employees, 
whose unwavering commitment and hard 
work were instrumental in navigating the 
complexities of the year. Our achievements 
would not have been possible without the 
significant contribution and guidance of our 
Board of Directors. I am also heartened by the 
continued patronage of our loyal customers. 
We are committed to exceeding your 
expectations and delivering the exceptional 
service you have come to expect. To our 
shareholders, thank you for the trust placed in 
SLT. We are steadfast in our efforts to create 
exceptional value and generate competitive 
and sustainable returns on your investment. 
Finally, a heartfelt thank you to our esteemed 
partners, government counterparts, and 
industry regulator – the Telecommunications 
Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka (TRCSL), 
who share our vision for a connected future, 
and spur our every success.

Business Context and Strategy


Business Model
INPUTS

Finance
Total Group equity capital LKR 88.6 Bn. 
(adequate to withstand any business 
downturns)
Good liquidity position with
short-term investments


Manufactured

Continuous investments in infrastructure
Investment in property plant and equipment LKR 33,845 Mn.
Fibre infrastructure 65,000 km
Access Nodes (MSANs) and Optical Line Terminals (OLTs)
Existing copper infrastructure 
Wireless infrastructure base stations
05 International submarine cable systems
300+ Physical touchpoints across the Island


ENVIRONMENT

Reductions in energy use through better management 
and energy saving

SOCIAL

Customers
Around 9 million subscribers
Customer Experience Management officers

Employees
8,600+ dedicated workforce across the Group
Healthy industry relations
Talent development pipeline through SLT Talent Development Centre (SLTTDC)


Partners, Suppliers, Strategic Alliances

Strong dealer network
Robust global and local partner and supplier ecosystem
Strategic alliances and joint ventures



Governance

Unified brand image and service offering
Growing innovation platform
Certified systems and processes meeting international standards (ISO /IEC 22301:2019, ISO 9001: 2015, ISO /IEC 27001:2013, ISO 18295-1:2017)

Provision of comprehensive offering:
Entertainment (IPTV), enterprise and digital services 
(cloud computing and hosting services, networking 
solutions)


Ongoing product development:
New product and solution development based 
on changing customer needs; providing greater 
flexibility, reliability, and cost-effectiveness


Enhancement and extension of infrastructure,
reach, and service: Fibre speeds increased to 300mbps
Expansion of data centres Migration from 3G to 4G /5G Bundled packages for different product lines
Introduction of ipv6 handling larger No. of IpsNew extended-reach products: Duthaya, ProConnect, and HitFlix.


Integration of cutting-edge technology:
Contact centre moved to cloud Cloud services run on three platforms; VMWare, Microsoft Azure, Oracle Cloud


VMWare, Microsoft 
Azure, Oracle Cloud VMware to launch 
Sri Lanka’s first VMware Cloud Foundation (VCF) 
deployment and double VCF Cloud


Exceptional employee value-proposition:

Diversity and inclusion
in the workplace Focus on career progression 
of staff Introduction of Executive 
Development programme Facilitating workforce  adaptation to technological 
advantages and shifting market dynamics


OUTCOMES

Stable financial results
No dividends proposed to be declared during the year


Group revenue LKR 106.4 Bn.
Group gross profit LKR 38.6 Bn.


Reliable infrastructure and connectivity
Fibre network extended by 65,000 kms 
LTE capacity expanded by 400 base stations
Expansive geographical reach
Provision of backbone services to other operators


Environmental conservation

Reduced environmental footprint of services: Waste 
management best-practices, energy-saving and energy 
efficiency measures, ongoing shift to renewable energy

Community environmental 
awareness raised


Outstanding customer value

Services and offers 
catering to customer 
needs - convenience, 
flexibility, and reliability


Innovative solutions for 
enterprise customers - 
enabling management of 
mission-critical infrastructure 
and applications through data 
centres with reliability, security, 
and scalability

Expanding cloud services and 
offering enabling enterprises 
to increase agility, provide quick 
service deliveries, maximise 
cost-efficiency and ROI, and 
increased scalability


Thousands of customers 
utilising innovative healthcare 
solutions: eChannelling

Continually increasing value 
of customer digital financial 
transactions through mCash


Continued improvements in 
reliability, data-privacy, datasecurity, and cyber-security


Empowered employees

Improved employee, 
job satisfaction, career 
opportunities, and loyalty.

Strong pipeline of 
promotions filled internally

Local hiring for critical needs 
providing employment 
opportunities   

Competitive and attractive 
remuneration and benefits to 
employees

22 average hours of training 
per employee 


NVQ qualifications awarded to 
entry-level youth

Schools empowered through 
digitalisation programmes

Youth benefitted through 
targeted programmes

Selected schools across 
the Island supported 
through ESG initiatives


Transforming organisation

Streamlining processes to improve 
efficiency and reduce manual work


Continued digitalisation

Leveraging synergies from
SLT-MOBITEL unification

Mainstreaming innovation across 
functions and culture


Operating Contex


Analysing the operational landscape of 
Sri Lanka Telecom PLC (SLT), we delve 
into the global economic scenario, the 
international telecommunications and 
technological landscape, and the socioeconomic backdrop of Sri Lanka, coupled with 
anticipated growth in the upcoming year.
The Global Economy
“Global GDP growth is projected to stay 
at 3.1% in 2024 and rise to 3.2% in 2025. 
Elevated Central Bank rates to fight inflation 
and a withdrawal of fiscal support amidst 
high debt weigh on economic activity. 
Inflation is falling faster than expected in 
most regions, amid unwinding supply-side 
issues and restrictive monetary policy. 
Global headline inflation is expected to fall 
to 5.8% in 2024 to 4.4% in 2025, with the 
2025 forecast having been revised down.”, 
as stated by the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF).


Contrastingly, the World Bank presents 
a sombre outlook for 2024, envisioning 
a third consecutive year of global GDP 
deceleration to 2.4%. This trajectory 
poses a threat to poverty reduction goals, 
potentially hindering efforts to uplift 
vulnerable populations. 


As we approach the midpoint of a transformative decade, the global economy is on track to 
register the slowest half-decade of GDP growth in three decades, as reported by the World 
Bank’s Global Economic Prospects report.


The OECD’s latest Economic Outlook projects global GDP growth to reach a mild slowdown 
to 2.7% in 2024 and a slight improvement to 3.0% in 2025. Asia is expected to continue to 
account for the bulk of global growth in 2024 /25, as it has in 2023.
Impact of the Gaza Conflict 
The impact of the conflict on worldwide commodity markets has been relatively contained, 
witnessing only a modest uptick of around 6% in oil prices. The World Bank reports that 
agricultural commodities, the majority of metals, and other commodities have displayed 
minimal fluctuations.
However, the situation might swiftly take a turn for the worse if other Middle Eastern nations 
decide to engage in the conflict. The potential blockage of the Suez Canal alone could result 
in a substantial 12% reduction in global trade. According to the most pessimistic forecasts, 
the outbreak of a direct war involving additional regional countries might elevate global 
inflation by 1.2% and reduce world GDP by 1%.
Global Telecom Industry
Research conducted by the McKinsey Global Institute reveals that the global 
telecommunications sector holds a substantial value of USD 1.5 Tn., contributing to 2.5% 
of the overall global Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The study further indicates that this 
sector is experiencing a robust annual growth rate of 5%, surpassing the pace of the global 
economy, with even greater opportunities in the future.
“Driven largely by video traffic, global data consumption over telecom networks will nearly 
triple, from 3.4 Mn. petabytes (PB) in 2022 to 9.7 Mn. PB in 2027. As the transition to 5G 
continues, and newer technological standards gain traction, telcos are projected to invest 
USD 342.1 Bn. in their networks in 2027 alone”. These are among the key findings outlined in 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) first Global Telecom Outlook.



A Massive Increase in Video Consumption will Drive Growth in Data
Global data consumption split by content category, 2018-2027


Data consumption associated with gaming 
is expected to rise at a 21% Compound 
Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) between 
2022 and 2027, reflecting the continued 
shift towards online and cloud gaming. 
The projected CAGR of around 43% in 
virtual reality (VR) data over the five-year 
time frame will see its share of total data 
consumption reach 5% by 2027, driven 
by the growth of the metaverse. However, 
incomes for telecoms will not improve 
proportionately due to the commoditised 
nature of data, which doesn’t allow for 
differentiating the offer. This holds true for 
telecom operators such as SLT as well.
Impact of Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
on the Industry
The telecommunications industry stands 
at the epicentre of driving widespread 
adoption of advanced technologies, 
primarily propelled by mobile and 5G 
broadband services in the Internet of Things 
(IoT) era. Projections indicate that the global 
AI component in the telecommunications 
market is expected to reach USD 14.99 Bn. 
by 2027, up from USD 11.89 Bn. in 2020, 
with a remarkable CAGR of 42.6% during 
the period 2021-2027


Artificial Intelligence (AI) will play a pivotal 
role in this transformative journey, 
influencing various aspects such as: 
network optimisation, automation of 
customer service, integration of virtual 
assistants, predictive maintenance, 
implementation of Robotic Process 


Automation (RPA) for telecommunications 
companies, fraud prevention, and fostering 
revenue growth.
According to McKinsey Global, telcos 
could unlock growth and rejuvenation 
by wholeheartedly adopting extensive 
AI deployment and transitioning into 
organisations that are inherently AI-native. 
Recognising this imperative as nonnegotiable, some telcos are increasing their 
investments in AI, scaling them up as the 
tangible business impact of this technology 
becomes evident. 
Sri Lanka too can expect the 
implementation of such technologies in the 
near future, with SLT playing a crucial role in 
their rollout and adoption.
Sri Lankan Economy
Sri Lanka’s economy is expected to grow 
by 1.7% in 2024 after contracting by 
3.8% in 2023, the World Bank said in its 
twice-a-year update, in January this year. 
Several indicators point to the realisation of 
this optimistic scenario. 
Improved Forex Situation
In December 2023, Sri Lanka’s gross official 
reserves reached USD 4.4 Bn., as per official 
data. This increase was supported by loans 
from multilateral lenders, including the 
International Monetary Fund.

---Page 23

In 2023, remittances to Sri Lanka through 
official channels increased by 57% to 
USD 5.97 Bn., up from USD 3.8 Bn. the 
previous year. This rise was facilitated by a 
better exchange rate following improved 
monetary policy. This marks the highest 
annual inflow from Sri Lankan expatriates 
since 2019.
Sri Lanka’s tourism sector has experienced 
significant growth, with earnings exceeding 
USD 2 Bn. and the arrival of over 1.48 million 
visitors in 2023. This marks the highest 
revenue and visitor influx since 2019. 
Sri Lanka Tourism has set ambitious goals 
for 2024, aiming to attract 2.5 million 
tourists and generate USD 4.6 Bn. in 
revenue. Additionally, the long-term 
strategy aims to increase arrivals to 5 million 
and achieve revenue of USD 21.6 Bn. within 
five years.
Impact of VAT
Many import restrictions of the past 
few years have been lifted, and foreign 
exchange is readily accessible. While 
the exchange rate remains elevated, 
there is room for improvement in the 
importation of communication devices 
by individuals, corporates, as well as the 
telecommunications industry. However, 
the Government’s announcement of an 
increase in the value added tax (VAT) from 
15% to 18% has resulted in corresponding 
increments in taxes on Mobile, Mobile 
Broadband, Fixed Broadband, Pay 
Television, and value-added services. This 
adjustment has the potential to affect 
revenue, particularly from users of more 
premium services.
While the worst days of inflation are over, 
increase in the value added tax (VAT) and 
the resultant rise in overall costs could drive 
inflation up to about 7% by January 2024, 
from 4% in December 2023 and 3.4% in 
November 2023.
Future Prospects
In terms of industry outlook, the Sri Lanka 
telecommunications market revenue is 
expected to grow at a CAGR of 6.8% over 
the next five years. Most of the major 
telecom companies in the world are 
present in the country, making significant 
R&D investments consistently. Key 
telecom operators have completed 5G 
demonstrations and trials. Customers will 
slowly migrate from 3G and 4G networks to 
the 5G network, once it is implemented


of mobile networks heralds a connectivity 
revolution, poised to assume a more 
significant role than its predecessors. As 
per the Ministry of Telecommunication 
and Digital Infrastructure’s projections, 
the development of 5G technology alone 
has the potential to contribute up to 10% 
of Sri Lanka’s total GDP by 2025, and 
generate over one million jobs. It could 
augment Sri Lanka’s GDP from USD 8 Bn. to 
USD 20 Bn. by the year 2030.
The proposed merger between Dialog 
and Airtel would create a combined entity 
with a significant advantage in spectrum 
ownership. The combined holding would 
represent a higher portion of the total 
spectrum allocated in the mobile industry. 
Industry analysts point to spectrum 
ownership as a key factor determining 
product quality and overall competitiveness; 
indicating the merger could grant 
immediate subscriber growth and a 
potential service and network quality edge.
During the year, the Company achieved 
a significant milestone by introducing 
the innovative hybrid model (SA+NSA) 
technology of 5G for the first time in 
Sri Lanka. With the deployment of 5G 
Standalone, SLT is positioned to support 
essential applications requiring UltraReliable Low Latency Communication 
(URLLC) with enhanced latency, and 
enhance its capacity for Network Slicing, 
Robust Quality of Service (QoS) Assurance, 
Edge Computing, and various other cuttingedge functionalities.
Under the leadership of SLT, which 
straddles the fixed line and mobile spheres, 
and is fully geared to take the country 
towards the future, this could be the 
transformative scenario that awaits the 
telecommunications industry, as well as 
the Sri Lankan economy. The Company’s 
diverse technological and human resources 
could pave the way for a revolution in 
telecommunications, reaping vast so


Strategy
Our strategic focus on operational excellence, digital 
transformation, and customer-centric solutions underscores 
our commitment to delivering value to our stakeholders and 
positioning SLT for long-term success.